# AI Note Taker
#### Video Demo: [Link](https://youtu.be/htif0k-js5Y)
## Description:
#### This program utilizes the Gemini API to generate notes and allows the user to save them to the current working directory or specify a directory to save to.
#### Provides a 'free-roam' option that allows the user to query the API in order to learn about a subject without saving it.
## Reason For Project
#### During the CS50P course, I was taking a lot of notes and realized how much more efficient it would be if I could generate notes that would be stored on my computer to reference them at a later time. I knew that Python was great at automating tasks and making my life easier as I had created projects for that specific purpose in the past so naturally I began to think about how I would implement this to make my life easier.
## Design
#### My initial approach to this project was to make a web scraper where I would provide a URL and it would extract the data from the URL which pertains to the subject I wanted to have notes on. As I was working on it, I realized that we are in an AI renaissance because it is being implemented in nearly every sector so I changed my project to instead use some sort of generative AI. At first, I went with the OpenAI API but quickly learned that you have to pay for access so that is when I went off to find a free version where I ultimately came across the Gemini API.
## Save Notes Functionality
#### The save notes portion of the program allows the user to write a prompt to the Gemini AI. A user can virtually write anything to it as long as it is appropriate and it will print the AI's response. It will not, however, allow the user to provide a prompt that is null. The user can then select to save the response or to continue. If the user chooses to continue, they will be brought back to the main menu of the program. If instead the user decides that they would like to save the provided response, then they will need to generate a valid file name or else they will encounter an error and be prompted to retry the file name. The user can then decide if they want to specify where to save the notes, or they can opt to save them to the current working directory.
## Free-Roam Functionality
#### The free-roam aspect of this program is very similar to the Save Notes portion. It once again asks the user to write a prompt and if it is null, it will not send it to the API. After the notes are generated, the user is given the choice to either continue or return. The continue option in this portion of the program will allow the user to once again write a prompt to the API as opposed to returning to the main menu like in the Save Notes portion. If a user wishes to return to the main menu of the program then they must simply enter 'R' for return.
## Gemini API
#### I ultimately decided on using the Gemini API because it was free, but also because it is very easy to utilize. All I had to do to implement it was configure the API with my API_KEY, specify which Gemini AI model I would be using, and then get the user's prompt and send it to the API which would in turn send back the response. I really enjoyed working with the API and implementing generative AI in my project and look forward to it in the future.
